{{tools-reading-as-conversation}}==One of the most important mental tricks I've found is to start to think of reading itself as dialogical. Reading itself is something social. The people we read, their work, live or dead, is best approached as a kind of conversation. What do I mean?

I mean it quite literally, really. For me, while I've attempted large-scale reviews and an extractive kind of reading, in the end, what it always comes back to is reading something someone has worked on and writing about it. Increasingly, I think of this as a literal task. At times, I have written, underlined, or highlighted, or made scribbles and notes in the margins. But the challenge there is I collect these notes and scribbles in many files, and never work with those highlights. At other times, I use a digital device and highlight to collect dozens and hundreds of quotes. Increasingly, I'm turning to a dialogical model, where I am working and as I am reading, at the very same time, or page at time, I am stopping and writing up a quote, typing up a reaction, responding to the quote as I write. This is a model of social science as an interpretive and hermeneutic one—interpreting texts—rather than merely reporting findings.

But it is a way to have a dialogue in real time, on the page, in notes. These notes then become an externalized dialogue with what I am reading. It is a strange feeling, in the sense it feels like it’s more work, or that somehow, I am not reading. But really it forces me to slow down, to read slowly, and to work with the words, to then repeat them, and in doing so, savor them and their construction. I don't read everything this way and haven't really spent most of my career writing this way, but it turns reading into a practical task, a thing one does, rather than purely a mental activity. Doing this, I reduce a lot of notes, comments, and writing, but it’s a model of reading through annotation that makes it social.

The other way I have successfully been able to read is through the process of reading for class, for seminars, or for a colloquium. We read, and in my case, immediately after I read it, we talk about what we are reading. In that form, it is where people’s interpretations of text come to the fore. But it's dialogical. It's muddled and increasingly students or peers, talking through text. When I go to a seminar, without having read something, and without having had a chance to take notes, then I come out of the talk or the text, inspired, and interested, but I am unlikely to write it down. I am unlikely to remember it, in the details.

But it is making reading social as an activity in which one is in dialogue with someone else, at two different moments, across distance, and across class, and background. One can read, and in so doing, take in someone else’s dialogue. But reading is also a social activity in the sense that there are wider conversations going on between people, readers, and writers, scholars, and academics, and intellectuals, researchers and students, writers of all kinds. This is another medium, which is like any other. Art has different practitioners, and theatre, and there are communities of scholars, and they get together and talk and share ideas and laugh and have fun. That's what I am trying to do as a writer, and that's what I found in convergences.

Of course, one must ask what to read. I have no good answer here; whenever I have tried to be too systematic, I have failed. So, instead, I read, and I follow my gut, and I read too much, and I read too unsystematically, and perhaps too quickly. Wendy Belcher has good advice: read the new, make real arguments with things people are actually writing and not straw men you have invented in the service of an argument, she says to claim your ideas and make them explicit, make them real. If you have an idea, make it yours, but also write about why it is original—articulate originality—, articulate significance, when you have a single, central argument, move forward, but avoid being dogmatic, convicting for conviction's sake, being rhetorical, being strident, tone down, temper the argument, and avoid excessive documentation which warps the flow of my student writing when I was worried about being seen as a plagiarist that I'd quote every second sentence thinking it was what we had to do, avoid the famous for fame's sake, and avoid monotonous synopsis of other’s work.

But Belcher imagines this as a conversation in a net form of writing—imagine yourself in a conversation, and you wouldn't just walk in. Then, make an intervention, saying you’ve talked about such and such, but not that other thing. You acknowledge the conversation and make your point. How to do this? Make the connections, evaluate the literature, fill a gap, argue for an absence, or find it useful and expand it, or wrong and fix. But it’s hard to do.

The evaluative summary of previous arguments is hard to do—which is why she suggests stalling a colleague about a debate you overheard, who said what, who took what side, what was convincing, what wasn’t. What you'd do is summarize and evaluate, rather than do one-person said, another person said. But you'd tell stories related to what you are writing about, and then you'd think of the sides of debate and evaluate the work.

You would take theory courses, and you would read journals. You would schedule time to read, and during the time of reading, you would look at things that interested you directly.

To quote Belcher on John Maynard Keynes, "Practical men, who believe themselves to be quite exempt from intellectual influences, are usually the slaves of some defunct economist. Madmen in authority, who hear voices in the air, are distilling their frenzy from some academic scribbler a few years back," (Keynes, 1936). She suggests reading critical reference books and dictionaries.

But the challenge for all of this is how to do this. How to manage your relationship. For me, it's a textual process. It's about reading, and when something strikes me as interesting or worth remembering, writing it down at that moment. It's not about the same day; it's about the same 10 minutes. Read a page, and then write about it. My writing up is the same way. I read my notes, and as I am reading them, I am in dialogue with them. Writing is social and conversational.

I am convinced that what David Graeber once tweeted is true: we have a hard time remembering arguments and ideas for very long. It's simply the case that we forget, or at least I do. But, Graeber points out, we can talk about things for a long time, in conversation with others. Therefore, my classrooms are attempts to get conversations going, but they are also where I test out ideas. But, writing itself as an activity, I get a gerund sense where reading is writing. I mean it literally. I mean that when I am writing while reading, I am doing it at the keyboard, with a piece of paper on the side, and I am writing up, adding page numbers, and making sense of what I am reading. Belcher suggests, learning from successful authors, XYZ, of reducing articles to their essence, eroding, and writing in the same decade, cursing to journals, and skimming.

Of course, then there is the problem of the fact that there is so much out there to read. I have no good answer. On the one hand, I am far more likely to read unsystematically, to dip into a half dozen conversations over the course of a month. Belcher suggests limiters: read recently, read only what's published not in the last few years, read only in a language or two, only read articles not conference proceedings or blogs, read your discipline journals, or read only well-known authors, or read specific geographic areas, or read in specific contexts, or specific time periods, or certain kinds of methods, or certain variables, or read with keywords in titles or abstracts, or read what you have access to. I'm not sure if this is useful, as I've never been very rigorous. But she also suggests reading the news articles first, which I've always struggled with. Finding myself drawn backwards, and then I never get to the present. I read the reviews of books, the Times Literary Supplement, The New Yorker, or The Atlantic, or reading book reviews. I've always felt guilty reading the book review, not the book. But, as Belcher writes, citing Baker, 1991, p. 64, "book reviews, not books, [are] the principal engine of change in the history of thought."

It's a conversation. It's someone's intervention, and idea or argument. But it's what moves disciplines and ideas forward.

Belcher suggests not to take too many notes, focusing on debates and arguments. Which is true, but what is interesting is how to take the notes. At the same time, in the process of reading, one is always writing. I write, and when it's interesting, I write it.

She also suggested taking courses with experts, read biographies, see reading as a dialectic between positions, conversation, and write in conversations with what you are reading.

What you are publishing is ink overstaining with your audience, but when you are reading, it is in conversation with what you are reading.=={{tools-reading-reading-as-conversation}}